In this video we're going to take a look at a simple concept which has been used extensively in deep
learning for a while now.
Now recent research has shown that it's not that useful but it still comes up a lot in older architectures
and people do use it.
So it's worth getting used to it.
So let's go ahead and start our code with CNN extra dash begin as always the end product is in slash
dash instructor taught by me.
But let's go over here.
This is the same architecture that we created last time except we want to add a new type of layer over
here.
And let's go ahead and first take a look at it visually.
So this is our image that we have currently constructed.
So this might be the end of a convolution layer.
This might be the input that we have any output that you might have from any layer.
So this is an example of that.
What we want to do is we want to reduce the size of this image.
It helps in reducing the number of parameters that we have to multiply with the image.
So it helps us speed up our training if we reduce this size.
So how do we reduce US reduce it.
There are multiple ways but the easiest is to take a block let's say two by two over here and find out
whatever the maximum is within this two by two.
So let's take this big portion over here and the maximum in this is the six.
So instead of writing all four of these numbers we write just the max.
Then we jump by two blocks of it here and then we arrive at this green block and we have 2 4 7 and 8
the max of these is 8 and we like this 8 over.
Then we jump two rows down and to the start and the maximum overhead is three.
So for the yellow blocks we get one block of three and four the blue blocks we get four.
Now the first thing that you should notice is that we are doing a two by two pulling.
So this is called pulling the operation is concluding.
So we create a pool of these and from these we somehow reduce them to one number.
So here we're doing Max pooling.
So we pick simply the maximum of the four.
We can also do average putting in which we can take an average of all these four and put that overhead
instead.
So you can have different types of pulling.
Now what's the inclusion behind this.
The conclusion is that all these four numbers combined are going to have some effect in our decision
making and instead of taking these four numbers we pick just one.
So that helps us achieve what is called translation in radians but if you're not aware of that it simply
it simply means that if this 6 was here or here or here or here the end result would still be six.
So it lets us move the features of the image around a little bit.
Right.
So you don't really have to understand what that means essentially because the latest research has shown
that the max pulling doesn't really do anything helpful but it had been used quite a lot in the past.
So we should understand it at least anyway so we create a pool and from that we pick a number.
All right.
So this is Max willing we could have had average pooling we could have had any other type of flooding
as well.
So I mean putting is also possible depends on your use case.
How do we use this.
So this is simply a matter of going ahead and importing a new layer.
So this is going to be Max Boot 2D.
So Max pulling duty.
Sorry.
And then we're going to go ahead and use it already.
So that's the beauty of colors that begin simply go ahead and add model dot add Max pulling duty and
then we say pool size is equal to to commit to.
So this is a two plus two max pooling.
So that's it.
When we run that you will notice that in autumn monitor somebody nothing has changed except that this
new layer has been added and everything else remains the same except before exploding we had the size
and 30 by 30.
And now it has grown to 15 by 15.
Right.
Because we had a pool size of two by two.
So this four by four went to two by two and are 30 by 30.
When do 15 by 15 right.
So that's as simple as that.
You simply add a new Max pooling to deliver and you give me the pool size whichever you want if you
want.
Average pooling you can import have equally.
But we're going to stick with Max but you know you can run this and see whether it makes any improvements
in your accuracy but we're going to leave it at here for now.